Add `minimum_severity` and `trace_based` logger configuration parameters (#4612)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/logs/sdk.md

  If a `Logger` is disabled, it MUST behave equivalently
  to [No-op Logger](./noop.md#logger).

* `minimum_severity`: A [SeverityNumber](./data-model.md#field-severitynumber)
  indicating the minimum severity level for log records to be processed.

>   If not explicitly set, the `minimum_severity` parameter SHOULD default to `0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If not explicitly set, the `minimum_severity` parameter MUST default to `0`.
```

  If a log record's [SeverityNumber](./data-model.md#field-severitynumber) is
  specified and less than the configured `minimum_severity`, the log record MUST

>   be dropped by the `Logger`. Log records with an unspecified severity or severity set to `0` SHOULD NOT be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be dropped by the `Logger`. Log records with an unspecified severity or severity set to `0` MUST NOT be
```

>   affected by this parameter by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  affected by this parameter.
```

Author: see @lmolkova's concern here: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4612#discussion_r2261763371

Reviewer 2: I assume @pellared's point is that `SHOULD NOT` is permissive enough so that `by default` is redundant. I still feel that 'by default' makes spec easier to read  and explains intent for it to be configurable down the road, but if anyone feels strong about removing it, go ahead, I don't mind.

Author: @lmolkova check out https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4612#discussion_r2306983992

Reviewer 2: good catch! 

@pellared 

> Log records with an unspecified severity or severity set to `0` MUST NOT be affected by this parameter.

sounds like we would never drop records with 0 severity (and would never have config option for it)  and I don't want to close this door.

Reviewer: @lmolkova 

> sounds too restrictive - like we would never drop records with 0 severity (and would never have config option for it) - I don't want to close this door.

I do not agree. This is only describing the behavior of `minimum_severity` parameter.

> MUST NOT be affected **by this parameter.**

We can introduce another parameter in future e.g. `drop_unset_severity` if users want to drop log records with unspecified severity level. The behavior of `minimum_severity` should be consistent in all SDKs.

Author: Resolved in Log SIG meeting with https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4612/commits/ce0af15eaad377b614d27e7b78992fbbe83a2d3d

> * `trace_based`: A boolean indication of whether the logger should

Reviewer 3: Maybe a more explicit name? is `trace_sample_based` too mouthful? Not a strong feeling but `trace_based` may not be clear/obvious for new users.

Author: there was some prior discussion around this name: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4290#discussion_r1888861658

though certainly we can change it if others feel similarly

  only process log records associated with sampled traces.

>   If not explicitly set, the `trace_based` parameter SHOULD default to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If not explicitly set, the `trace_based` parameter MUST default to `false`.
```

  If a `Logger` is disabled, it MUST behave equivalently
  to [No-op Logger](./noop.md#logger).

* `minimum_severity`: A [SeverityNumber](./data-model.md#field-severitynumber)
  indicating the minimum severity level for log records to be processed.

  If not explicitly set, the `minimum_severity` parameter MUST default to `0`.

  If a log record's [SeverityNumber](./data-model.md#field-severitynumber) is

>   specified (i.e. not `0`) and is less than the configured `minimum_severity`, the log record MUST

Author: `be` is at the beginning of the next line

>   If a log record's [SeverityNumber](./data-model.md#field-severitynumber) is
>   specified and less than the configured `minimum_severity`, the log record MUST
>   be dropped by the `Logger`. Log records with an unspecified severity or severity set to `0` MUST NOT be
>   affected by this parameter by default.

Author: ```suggestion
  If a log record's [SeverityNumber](./data-model.md#field-severitynumber) is
  specified (i.e. not `0`) and is less than the configured `minimum_severity`, the log record MUST
  be dropped by the `Logger`. Log records with an unspecified severity (i.e. `0`) are not
  affected by this parameter.
```

  If `trace_based` is `true`, log records associated with unsampled traces MUST
  be dropped by the `Logger`. Log records that aren't associated with a trace
  context are not affected by this parameter.

It is not necessary for implementations to ensure that changes to any of these
parameters are immediately visible to callers of `Enabled`.

### Emit a LogRecord

If [Observed Timestamp](./data-model.md#field-observedtimestamp) is unspecified,
the implementation SHOULD set it equal to the current time.

**Status**: [Development](../document-status.md) Before processing a log record,
the implementation MUST apply the filtering rules defined by the
[LoggerConfig](#loggerconfig) (in case `Enabled` was not called prior to
emitting the record):

1. **Minimum severity**: If the log record's
   [SeverityNumber](./data-model.md#field-severitynumber) is specified
   (i.e. not `0`) and is less than the configured `minimum_severity`, the log
   record MUST be dropped.

2. **Trace-based**: If `trace_based` is `true`, and if the log record has a
   [`SpanId`](./data-model.md#field-spanid) and the
   [`TraceFlags`](./data-model.md#field-traceflags) SAMPLED flag is unset,

>    the log record MUST be dropped.

Author: I think the more concise wording is ok

### Enabled

`Enabled` MUST return `false` when either:

- there are no registered [`LogRecordProcessors`](#logrecordprocessor).
- **Status**: [Development](../document-status.md) - `Logger` is disabled
  ([`LoggerConfig.disabled`](#loggerconfig) is `true`).

> - **Status**: [Development](../document-status.md) - the provided severity
>   (if specified) is less than the configured `minimum_severity` in the

Author: ```suggestion
- **Status**: [Development](../document-status.md) - the provided severity
  is specified (i.e. not `0`) and is less than the configured `minimum_severity` in the
```
